.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980612
.\"
.\" Traduzione da man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\" Traduzione da man-pages-2.63 di Elisabetta Galli <lab@kkk.it>
.\" luglio 2007
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 "5 luglio 2007" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
afs_syscall, break, ftime, getpmsg, gtty, lock, madvise1, mpx, prof, profil,
putpmsg, security, stty, tuxcall, ulimit, vserver \- chiamate di sistema non implementate
.SH SINTASSI
Chiamate di sistema non implementate.
.SH DESCRIZIONE
Queste chiamate di sistema non sono implementate nel kernel Linux 2.6.22.
.SH "VALORI RESTITUITI"
Queste chiamate di sistema restituiscono sempre \-1 e impostano
.I errno
a
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH NOTE
Notare che
.BR ftime (3),
.BR profil (3)
e
.BR ulimit (3)
sono implementate come funzioni di libreria.

Alcune chiamate di sistema, come
.BR alloc_hugepages (2),
.BR free_hugepages (2),
.BR ioperm (2),
.BR iopl (2),
e
.BR vm86 (2)
esistono solo su alcune architetture.

Alcune chiamate di sistema, come
.BR ipc (2)
.BR create_module (2),
.BR init_module (2),
e
.BR delete_module (2)
esistono solo se il kernel Linux è stato compilato con il supporto ad esse.
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR syscalls (2)
