.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk-manpages@gmx.net>
.\"     Added notes on capability requirements
.\"
.\" Tradotto da Goffredo Baroncelli <kreijack@usa.net> il 9/4/1998
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.64 di Elisabetta Galli <lab@kkk.it>
.\" agosto 2007
.\"
.TH VHANGUP 2 "26 luglio 2007" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
vhangup \- sospende virtualmente il tty attuale
.SH SINTASSI
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int vhangup(void);
.sp
.in -4n
Test delle funzioni e requisiti delle macro per glibc (vedere
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR vhangup ():
_BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.ad b
.SH DESCRIZIONE
.BR vhangup ()
simula un hangup sul terminale attuale.
Questa chiamata permette ad altri utenti
di avere un terminale \*(lqpulito\*(rq quando effettueranno il login.
.SH "VALORI RESTITUITI"
In caso di successo restituisce zero.
In caso di errore restituisce \-1, e
.I errno
verrà impostato di conseguenza.
.SH ERRORI
.TP
.B EPERM
Il processo chiamante non ha i privilegi sufficienti per chiamare
.BR vhangup ();
è richiesta
la funzionalità
.B CAP_SYS_TTY_CONFIG.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Questa chiamata è specifica di Linux, e non deve essere usata in 
programmi pensati per essere portabili.
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR init (8)
