.\" $Id: issue.5,v 1.1.1.1 1999/05/24 15:40:22 sagan Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:22 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduzione in italiano di Giovanni Bortolozzo <borto@dei.unipd.it>
.\" Ottobre 1996
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-1.15 di Alessandro Rubini (rubini@linux.it)
.\" Febbraio 1998
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.72 di Elisabetta Galli <lab@kkk.it>
.\" dicembre 2007
.\"
.\" " for hilit19
.TH ISSUE 5 "24 luglio 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
issue \- messaggio visualizzato prima del login e file di identificazione
.SH DESCRIZIONE
Il file \fB/etc/issue\fP è un file testo che contiene un messaggio o
un'identificazione del sistema che viene stampato prima del prompt di login.
Può contenere diverse sequenze di \fB@\fP\fIcarattere\fP e \fB\e\fP\fIcarattere\fP,
se supportate dal programma
.BR tipo-getty
presente nel sistema.
.SH FILE
/etc/issue
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR motd (5), 
.BR agetty (8),
.BR mingetty (8)
.SH COLOPHON
Questa pagina fa parte del rilascio 2.72 del progetto
.I man-pages
di Linux.
Si può trovare una descrizione del progetto,
e informazioni su come riportare bachi,
presso
http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.
Per la traduzione in italiano si può fare riferimento a
http://www.pluto.it/ildp/collaborare/
