.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:27 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduzione in italiano di Giovanni Bortolozzo <borto@dei.unipd.it>
.\" Ottobre 1996
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-1.15 di Alessandro Rubini (rubini@linux.it)
.\" Febbraio 1998
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\"
.TH SECURETTY 5 "29 dicembre 1992" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
securetty \- file che elenca le tty dalle quali può loggarsi root
.SH DESCRIZIONE
Il file
.I /etc/securetty
è utilizzato da alcune versioni di
.BR login (1).
Il file contiene i nomi di dispositivo delle linee tty
(uno per linea, senza
.IR /dev/ iniziale)
sui quali root può eseguire il login.
Vedere
.BR login.defs (5)
se si usa la suite shadow.
.SH FILE
.I /etc/securetty
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR login (1),
.BR login.defs (5)
