.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Thu May 20 20:45:48 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:11:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 21 10:49:38 1993 by Michael Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Feb 26 15:09:15 1995 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduzione in italiano di Giovanni Bortolozzo <borto@dei.unipd.it>
.\" Agosto 1996
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-1.15 di Alessandro Rubini (rubini@linux.it)
.\" Febbraio 1998
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\"
.TH SHELLS 5 "21 novembre 1993" "" "Manuale del Programmatore Linux"
.SH NOME
shells \- percorsi delle shell di login disponibili
.SH DESCRIZIONE
.B /etc/shells
è un file testo che contiene i nomi di percorso completi delle shell di 
login disponibili.
Questo file è consultato da
.BR chsh (1)
e può essere interrogato da altri programmi.
.PP
Fare attenzione, perché ci sono programmi che consultano questo file per
sapere se un utente è un utente normale. Es.: i demoni ftp 
tradizionalmente disabilitano l'accesso a utenti con shell non incluse 
in questo file.
.SH ESEMPI
.B /etc/shells
potrebbe contenere i seguenti percorsi:
.sp
.RS
.B /bin/sh
.br
.I /bin/csh
.RE
.SH FILE
.I /etc/shells
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR chsh (1),
.BR getusershell (3)
