.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Traduzione da inetutils-1.4.2 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" gennaio 2006
.\"
.\"     @(#)talkd.8	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\"
.Dd 11 dicembre 1993
.Dt TALKD 8
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh NOME
.Nm talkd
.Nd server di comunicazione con utenti remoti
.Sh SINTASSI
.Nm talkd
.Sh DESCRIZIONE
.Nm Talkd
è il server che notifica a un utente che qualcun altro vuole
iniziare una conversazione.
Esso agisce come un repository di inviti, rispondendo a richieste
di client che vogliono un incontro per avere una conversazione.
In operazioni normali un client, il chiamante,
inzia un incontro inviando un
.Tn CTL_MSG
al server di tipo
.Tn LOOK_UP
(vedere
.Aq Pa protocols/talkd.h ) .
Questo induce il server a cercare le sue tabelle inviti
per verificare se attualmente esiste un invito per il chiamante
(per parlare ai chiamati specificati nel messaggio).
Se la ricerca fallisce,
il chiamante invia un messaggio
.Tn ANNOUNCE
inducendo il server a trasmettere un annuncio
alle porte di login dei chiamati a cui si chiede il contatto.
Quando il chiamato risponde il server locale usa l'invito ragistrato
per rispondere con gli indirizzi di incontro appropriati e i programmi 
client del chiamante e del chiamato stabiliscono una connessione 
attraverso cui prende piede la conversazione.
.Sh VEDERE ANCHE
.Xr talk 1 ,
.Xr write 1
.Sh STORIA
Il comando
.Nm
è apparso
.Bx 4.3 .
