.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" This man-page is Copyright (C) 1997 John S. Kallal
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" correction, aeb, 970825
.\"
.\" Traduzione in italiano di Ottavio G. Rizzo <rizzo@pluto.linux.it>
.\" Gennaio 1999
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\"
.TH FULL 4 "24 novembre 2007" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
full \- dispositivo sempre pieno
.SH CONFIGURAZIONE
Se il sistema non comprende già \fB/dev/full\fP, lo si può creare coi
seguenti comandi:
.nf

        mknod \-m 666 /dev/full c 1 7
        chown root:root /dev/full
.fi
.SH DESCRIZIONE
Il file \fB/dev/full\fP ha numero primario di dispositivo 1 e numero
secondario 7.
.LP
Le scritture sul dispositivo \fB/dev/full\fP falliscono con
un errore
.B ENOSPC.
Questo errore può essere usato per testare come un programma gestisce gli errori di disco pieno.

Le letture dal dispositivo \fB/dev/full\fP restituiscono caratteri \\0.

Le operazioni di ricerca su \fB/dev/full\fP hanno sempre successo.
.SH FILE
/dev/full
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR mknod (1),
.BR null (4),
.BR zero (4)
.SH COLOPHON
Questa pagina fa parte del rilascio 2.69 del progetto
.I man-pages
di Linux.
Si può trovare una descrizione del progetto,
e informazioni su come riportare bachi,
presso
http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.
Per la traduzione in italiano si può fare riferimento a
http://www.pluto.it/ildp/collaborare/
