.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:59:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduzione in italiano di Giovanni Bortolozzo <borto@dei.unipd.it>
.\" Settembre 1996
.\" Aggiornamento a man-pages-2.11 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" novembre 2005
.\"
.TH MEM 4 "21 novembre 1992" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
mem, kmem, port \- memoria del sistema, memoria del kernel e porte
del sistema
.SH DESCRIZIONE
\fBMem\fP è un file device a caratteri che è l'immagine della memoria
principale del computer. Potrebbe essere usato, per esempio, per
esaminare (e perfino rattoppare (patch)) il sistema.
.LP
Gli indirizzi dei byte in mem sono interpretati come indirizzi della
memoria fisica. Riferimenti a locazioni non esistenti causano la
restituzione dei un errore.
.LP
L'esame e il patch è facile comportino risultati inaspettati quando
sono presenti bit a sola lettura o a sola scrittura.
.LP
È creato tipicamente con:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/mem c 1 1
.br
chown root:mem /dev/mem
.sp
.RE
.LP
Il file \fBkmem\fP è analogo a mem, ad eccezione del fatto che è
l'accesso alla memoria virtuale del kernel invece che alla memoria
fisica. 
.LP
È creato tipicamente con:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 640 /dev/kmem c 1 2
.br
chown root:kmem /dev/kmem
.sp
.RE
.LP
\fBPort\fP è simile a mem, ma accede alle porte di IO.
.LP
È creato tipicamente con:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 660 /dev/port c 1 4
.br
chown root:mem /dev/port
.sp
.RE
.SH FILE
.I /dev/mem
.br
.I /dev/kmem
.br
.I /dev/port
.SH "VEDERE ANCHE"
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR ioperm (2)
