.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Traduzione da inetutils-1.4.2 di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" gennaio 2006
.\"
.\"	@(#)logger.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd 6 giugno 1993
.Dt LOGGER 1
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh NOME
.Nm logger
.Nd aggiunge voci al log di sistema
.Sh SINTASSI
.Nm logger
.Op Fl is
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl p Ar pri
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Ar message ...
.Sh DESCRIZIONE
.Nm Logger
fornisce una shell comandi di interfaccia al modulo di log di sistema
.Xr syslog  3
.
.Pp
Opzioni:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "message"
.It Fl i
Fa il log dell'id del processo del processo logger
con ciascuna linea.
.It Fl s
Fa il log del messaggio sullo standard error, oltre che sul log di sistema.
.It Fl f Ar file
Fa il log del file specificato.
.It Fl p Ar pri
Inserisce il messaggio con la priorità specificata.
La priorità può essere specificata numericamente o come coppia
``servizio.livello''.
Per esempiuo, ``\-p local3.info'' fa il log del messaggio(i) come livello
.Ar info Ns rmational
nel servizio
.Ar local3
.
Il default è ``utente.avviso.''
.It Fl t Ar tag
Marca ciascuna linea nel log con il
.Ar tag
specificato.
.It Ar message
Scrive il messaggio sul log; se non specificato, e il flag
.Fl f
non è fornito, viene fatto il log dello standard input.
.El
.Pp
L'utilità
.Nm logger
emette 0 in caso di successo, e >0 se avviene un errore.
.Sh ESEMPI
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
logger System rebooted

logger \-p local0.notice \-t HOSTIDM \-f /dev/idmc
.Ed
.Sh VEDERE ANCHE
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Sh STANDARD
Il comando
.Nm logger
dovrebbe essere comapitbile
.St -p1003.2
.
