.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2003 Matthew Wilcox
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel is constantly changing, this manual page may
.\" be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no responsibility
.\" for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the use of the
.\" information contained herein.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traduzione di Giulio Daprelà <giulio@pluto.it>
.\" ottobre 2005
.\"
.TH KSOFTIRQD 9 24 agosto 2003 "Linux 2.6.0" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NOME
ksoftirqd \- demone softirq
.SH DESCRIZIONE
.B ksoftirqd
è un thread del kernel che funziona quando la macchina è sottoposta ad 
un carico pesante di soft-interrupt. I soft-interrupt normalmente sono 
serviti in risposta ad un interrupt hardware, ma è possibile che i soft 
interrupt vengano innescati più velocemente di quanto possano essere 
serviti. Se un soft interrupt è innescato una seconda volta mentre 
vengono eseguiti altri soft interrupt il demone
.B ksoftirq
viene lanciato per gestire i soft interrupt nel contesto del processo.
Se
.B ksoftirqd
richiede più che una piccola percentuale del tempo CPU ciò indica che
la macchina è sottoposta ad un forte carico di soft interrupt.
.SH STORIA
.B ksoftirqd
fu introdotto durante lo sviluppo delle serie 2.3 come parte del lavoro
softnet da Alexey Kuznetsov e David Miller.
